---
title: OOP Intro
module: 14
jotted: false
---

# Intro to Object Oriented Programming (OOP)
<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks active" onclick="openTab(event, 'Overview')">Overview</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Benefits')">Benefits</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Videos')">Videos</button>
 
</div>

<div id="Overview" class="tabcontent" style="display:block"  >
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">
**Object Oriented programming (OOP)** is a programming paradigm that relies on the concept of classes and objects. It is used to structure a software program into simple, reusable pieces of code blueprints (usually called classes), which are used to create individual instances of objects. There are many object-oriented programming languages including JavaScript, C++, Java, and Python.

A **class** is an abstract blueprint used to create more specific, concrete objects. Classes often represent broad categories, like Car or Dog that share attributes. These classes define what attributes an instance of this type will have, like color, but not the value of those attributes for a specific object.

Classes can also contain **functions**, available only to objects of that type. These functions are defined within the class and perform some action helpful to that specific type of object.

For example, our Car class may have a function repaint that changes the color attribute of our car. This function is only helpful to objects of type Car, so we declare it within the Car class thus making it a method.

Class templates are used as a blueprint to create individual **objects**. These represent specific examples of the abstract class, like myCar or goldenRetriever. Each object can have unique values to the properties defined in the class.

For example, say we created a class, Car, to contain all the properties a car must have, color, brand, and model. We then create an instance of a Car type object, myCar to represent my specific car.

We could then set the value of the properties defined in the class to describe my car, without affecting other objects or the class template.

We can then reuse this class to represent any number of cars.
</div>
</div>
<div id="Benefits" class="tabcontent">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

## Benefits of OOP

OOP models complex things as reproducible, simple structures
Reusable, OOP objects can be used across programs
Allows for class-specific behavior through polymorphism
Easier to debug, classes often contain all applicable information to them
Secure, protects information through encapsulation

<a href="https://www.educative.io/blog/object-oriented-programming" target="_new"><em>Reference</em></a>

</div>
</div>
<div id="Videos" class="tabcontent">
<div class="tabhtml" markdown="1">

## Videos

## 1.

The following video introduces what OOP is and _why_ you may want to use this paradigm.

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SS-9y0H3Si8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

## 2.

Dan Shiffman provides his take on OOP. Don't worry too much about the code that does not make sense. He is describing Processing (p5's older brother which is based on the Java programming language).

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YcbcfkLzgvs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

</div>
</div>
