---
title: Code.org
module: 2
---

### Code.org and the Hour of Code

<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks active" onclick="openTab(event, 'Overview')">Overview</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Dance')">Dance Lab</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Artist')">Artist Lab</button>
</div>

<!-- Tab content -->
<div id="Overview" class="tabcontent" style="display:block">

<p>The following is the introduction video from Code.org.</p>

<p><a href="//www.youtube.com/embed/bQilo5ecSX4" data-lity>Code.org Video</a></p>

<p>I hope that you have heard of code.org.  It made a big splash in the news when it came out because its whole goal was to show the world that anyone could learn to write code.  Through the Hour of Code, celebrities tried it out and got people excited about the possibilities.  In the years since its release, it has been widely successful and adopted in many schools ranging from elementary to college.</p>

<p>So, we are going to try it out too!  Modules use Star Wars, Princesses, Minecraft, and others to show people how to write code.  However, as artists, we are going to focus on a more creative version of code.org. So, we are going to use the Dance Party as our starting point.  It'll be fun!  </p>
</div>
<div id="Dance" class="tabcontent">

<p>This introductory module shows us what is possible when we learn how to write a little code. It uses a visual language to make our characters do what we want them to do.  Why do we start here?  So we can focus on the <b>logic</b> and without having to worry about the syntax too much.  Below is the introductory video from Code.org.</p>

<p><a href="//www.youtube.com/embed/bVHSrWuROrk" data-lity>Dance Party Video</a></p>

<p><a href="https://studio.code.org/s/dance/stage/1/puzzle/1" target="_new">Dance Party Puzzle</a></p>

<p>After you complete all the sections, don't forget to save your certificate.  Just take a screenshot and save that image. You will turn that in for your homework. On windows, just press the <b>PrtScn</b> button.  On the Mac,  <b>Command+Shift+3</b></p>
</div>

<div id="Artist" class="tabcontent">

<p><a href="//www.youtube.com/embed/dT-IT-WfBFY" data-lity>Artist Lab Video</a></p>

<p>Finally, we are going to do some more exploration using Artist Lab.</p>

<p>Go to <a href="https://studio.code.org/s/artist/stage/1/puzzle/1" target="_new">Artist Lab Puzzle</a> and go through the tutorial. Then, create something of your own at the end. Please take a screenshot of that creation and then save that with your certificate from the previous exercise.</p>
</div>